this was the very first transistor and
it was made in
1947 by 1978 the industry had Advanced
to integrated circuits with features
just one micrometer large that's 50
times smaller than a human hair and was
done on a machine that cost about $2
million I want to replicate that
capability in my own shop so I'm going
to build a photolithography machine with
the goal of hitting one micron
features but you know it's 2024 which
means I can cheat and use modern
technology to speedrun through the last
30 years of
[Music]
progress and hopefully make it a little
cheaper than $2
million if you're new to the channel
here's a quick overview of what's going
on there are hundreds of steps to make
an integrated circuit but arguably the
most important step is called
photolithography it's the process of
transferring a pattern into a
photosensitive resin that's on the wafer
that pattern is then used for every
other step in the process of making a
chip it's basically the same idea as
cameras and film Emulsion the light
sensitive resin that's used in SLA
printers or the resist that's used to
manufacture pcbs the only difference
really is in size chips are very small
and so the pattern we put on the chip
also has to be really small I've daed
with photo lithography a little bit in
the past and the Machine I made was well
charitably it wasn't very good in fact
it was basically unusable other than as
a demonstration I've also done some
Electron Beam lithography in the past
and it's perfect for really small
features I've been working on some
vacuum transistors that have gaps just a
few hundred nanometers wide but my
machine isn't really designed for
patterning large areas so if you watch
my DIY camera sensor video you'll have
seen all the issues I had with stitching
multiple Fields together to form like a
bigger chip so I have two goals with
this project first I really want to hit
that one micron feature size it's you
know just like a nice round number and
it coincides with a historical kind of
pivotal moment in the industry in 1978
GCA introduced the man 4800 DSW this was
the first commercially successful wafer
stepper that used reduction Optics to
print patterns and it was basically a
huge jump forward for the industry at
the time so I figured the one micron
mark would be a good Milestone to aim
for also and this is just kind of fun
the machine retailed for
$450,000 which in today's money is about
2 million bucks making the equivalent of
a $2 million machine in my own shop I
don't know it kind of just sound like a
fun challenge the second goal was to
write patterns over a large area with a
good microscope objective it's actually
not that hard to hit submicron features
but it's very challenging to do that
over a wide area consistently with those
goals in mind let's start designing this
machine the device I made a few years
ago was constructed from aluminum
extrusions 3D printed components and
basically bubble gum I kind of just
assembled it as I went and it really
wasn't great I want this new machine to
actually work reliably so it's time to
fire up the old CAD program and pretend
to be an engineer I designed a frame
that let us Mount the motion stage of
the bottom and all the necessary Optical
stuff at the top it also doubles as an
enclosure photo resist is sensitive to
ultraviolet light so there are large
yellow acrylic panels to filter out
anything that could expose the resist I
decided to go with a sheet metal design
for this project I've never really done
sheet metal work before but it made
sense for this machine 8020 Extrusion is
a pain to work with in my opinion and I
wanted something more professional than
Home Depot wood panels unfortunately I
don't really have any sheet metal
capabilities in my shop I have cnc's but
they aren't really designed for large
sheet fabrication luckily you can order
laser cut parts from send cut send the
process is really easy just design in
CAD export a dxf or step file and upload
to their online system they also have
bending Services which I use liberally
on these parts to make assembly a little
easier I'm a fusion 360 user and fusion
has a pretty decent module for modeling
bent parts you punch in the bending
parameters that sen cut send provides
for their different materials and then
you just start creating bends and
flanges I fired the parts off to Sun cut
s and got to work on the optical system
this is basically a DLP projector in a
dev kit form from Texas Instruments
there are a few main components to this
there's a lens section here which we'll
be removing because we don't need a
projection lens there's the DMD chip
inside of the device and we'll see that
in a minute and then there's a bunch of
complicated Optical components down here
to couple three high power LEDs into the
the projection system so one of these
LEDs the blue one will be replacing with
a UV LED and we'll keep red and green as
they are because we can use those for uh
inspection and Alignment
purposes so the next step to do is pull
off the uh projection lens and add in
our own adapters so we can start adding
Optics that we want in front of this
[Music]
system and now I'm going to roughly get
all the optical components in place just
to make sure everything fits and see if
I need to make any more cage plates or
if some of these don't work or whatever
so we've got a lens a beam splitter
another lens lens microscope objective
and this is a
camera okay uh I'm going to take a pause
for a minute to explain the optical
system kind of like all the different
things going on here so the heart of the
system is a digital mirror device or a
DMD these are made by Texas Instruments
and you'll see them on DLP projectors
it's basically like a matrix of little
micro mirrors that can be individually
addressed flipping them back and forth
turning it essentially on and off so
when they're flipped one way they send
light to the projector lens and when
they flip the other direction it just
sends light off into nowhere and you get
a dark pixel but the trick here is we
can take the projection Optics remove it
and put some kind of reduction Optics
like a microscope objective and that
will project a pattern down to a small
size on your substrate and this is
basically what's called a maskless
lithography machine because we don't
have any mask we're just making the
pattern digitally on a computer and
display it with the DMD this is a very
wellestablished route to take there are
hundreds of academic papers that use
this real commercial lithography
machines will'll actually use a DMD
internally and there's even a bunch of
YouTube channels like Sam and huan's
Optics that have done this as well so
this is nothing new I'm just doing it
again kind of with my own take on it my
original plan was to build a direct
right laser machine very similar to the
first one I built a couple years ago but
I changed my mind when I ran across the
hacker Fab group this is a group of like
self-organized students at CMU that are
building an open-source lithography Fab
so it's all the things you need to build
a chip you know spin coders and litho
machines and process development it's
all being documented and put online so I
decided to go their route and pick up a
DMD similar to what they are using my
system ended up being quite a bit
different than what they have but it was
really helpful having all this stuff
pre-doc so if you're interested in open
source litho definitely go check it out
they're doing some really cool stuff
over there and it's all accessible
online the actual Optics are pretty
simple UV light is projected onto the
DMD which is toggling those mirrors on
and off to form an image this generates
a diverging beam that comes out and we
colate it with a lens it then hits a
beam splitter most of that light
continues straight down into a
microscope objective which focuses it
down onto the substrate some of that
light is absorbed by the photo resist
and some of it bounces off and goes back
the way it came hits the beam splitter
again and is redirected into this
horizontal arm another lens takes that
beam and focuses it onto a small USB
camera which we can use for alignment
and focusing and that's basically it
it's pretty simple as far as Optics are
concerned we also have to replace the
blue LED with ultraviolet LEDs I've
never used solder paste before so please
forgive the crimes I'm about to
commit they soldered up a bit wonky
because I don't know what I'm doing but
they work fine so whatever
then we need to drill some holes in the
base plate so that the DMD can be
mounted to the rest of the frame and
assemble the whole Optical
engine a week or so later the S cut send
Parts have arrived and it's time to
start assembling the frame
itself the frame is made from 1/ Quin
thick mild steel while the two door side
panels are made from a slightly thinner
Cold raled Steel and then there's like a
back panel which is just a really thin
aluminum a 1 quarter inch might have
been a little Overkill but I want it to
be super sturdy because any vibrations
or movement of the frame will directly
impact the resolution so I kind of
messed up the design of this but I think
it'll be recoverable uh basically
there's a bow to this bottom plate
that's just the nature of this type of
metal so this is just A36 mild steel uh
it's not the fault of the laser cting
service that would happen if you bought
this sort of plate straight from the
metal distributor so what I should have
done is put a vertical section here bent
upwards and then the same on the front
to turn it basically into a box if we
look at this piece uh this is basically
what I should have done I needed a bend
on the left and a bend on the front and
that makes this surface remarkably flat
for being you know a piece of just bent
sheet metal luckily having it fully
assembled see seems to constrain the
structure a fair amount and it's
relatively flat to get these parts ready
for painting I first had to deur all the
laser cut edges laser parts are way
cleaner than plasma cut but there's
still a sharp bur that needs to be
removed s cut send offers deburring
services for a very reasonable rate and
in retrospect I really should have opted
for that service deburing all these
parts on my little bench polisher took
forever and honestly I didn't do a very
good job I also had to degrease all the
surfaces before painting especially the
mild steel which is oiled to prevent
rusting then it was time to Prime and
paint the
panels This was also something else I
should have let s cut send deal with
they have powder coating Services which
would have result in a much nicer paint
job and let me focus on other parts of
the
build while that's drying let's take a
look at the motion platform this
delightful bit of equipment is an XY
stage from zaber and honestly it's the
reason I decided to work on this project
in the first place it's a linear motion
stage with 1 nanometer encoders and the
specs are honestly just wild 50 NM step
size 500 nmet repeatability on movements
a max speed of 750 mm a second that's
like almost a meter per second
well-characterized pitch and yaw errrors
with interferometry data for each stage
and it's all controlled with a really
nice python API now full disclosure this
stage was donated to the Channel by
zabber they are not sponsoring this
video they don't get to preview or make
any editorial changes and I'm allowed to
say basically whatever I want good or
bad but frankly I have nothing bad to
say about it it's just like a really
nice bit of Kit I'll talk about the
stage a little more later once we start
using it but for now let's focus on what
goes on top of the stage so the stage
was originally made for a microscope
which is why it has the hollow part in
the middle uh but I'm using it obviously
for an upright mic scope so we need some
kind of adapter which is what this is to
just provide a flat surface for us next
we'll mount a z
stage now we are going to mount the
rotation and wafer Chuck stage on top of
this or the rough setup we've got a
stepper
motor a housing which goes on
top another housing which sits there and
then like a spindle unit which fits now
inside of that huh that's interesting
the top two holes are
fine bottom two definitely do not match
up uh nope that was definitely my fault
I modeled the stepper motor hole spacing
incorrectly so we're going to do the
ageold fix of drill out two of the holes
to make them a little bigger and
hopefully it'll line up
then all we're going to try the less age
old approach of using
[Music]
an endmill in a
drill oh yeah that'll
do I mean it's not beautiful
but
[Music]
H and rotate
that this is such a terrible design who
came up with
this and the O ring on
[Music]
top and the kinematic
Mount here's a cross-section view of how
it all works the stepper motor directly
drives the rotation stage to also pull a
vacuum on it there's a hole down the
center of the shaft and four cros holes
which open into a chamber sealed by two
O-rings the O-rings allow the shaft to
spin while also keeping it airtight and
pull a vacuum finally there's a
kinematic mount on top composed of pins
and ball bearings plus a few magnets for
preload this allows me to take the top
surface on and off easily without
worrying about alignment you just throw
it back on and it will click into place
so now that we have all the individual
components done we can finish assembling
the whole machine put it all together
[Music]
all right so we have it roughly
assembled and I'm not displeased but
there's definitely some problems uh most
of it stems from just lack of experience
working with sheet metal uh this is not
flush because there's a cap head screw
in the way and I neglected to make a
cutout paint is starting to chip off
already because there should be some
clearance between the lid and the frame
I'm currently holding the lid open with
just a piece of aluminum stock which
obviously is not how this is supposed to
function I need to get a gas spring to
help lift the lid up I forgot that the
stage is bolted to the bottom of the
frame with a through bolt and a nut and
that means there's a bolt and a nut
sticking out the bottom which means it
can't sit flush on the platform I
totally forgot to put some bolt holes on
this side up here which means that this
acrylic piece flexes downward when it's
in its resting position CU there's
nothing supporting it and it's pretty
thin when we close the
lid we've got a few problems here first
of all there's no handle and if we come
around to the side we can see that it's
not actually at a right angle because
again there's a capad screw in the way
next we need to mount the projector to
the frame and all the Optics onto the
projector cool so I have it all set up
over here it's plugged in and running
and it's controlled off of my laptop at
the moment uh we are not at all aligned
so the next step is getting all of the
Optics aligned and configured so that
this displays an actual
image well I'm not going to bore you
with all the details here there were
many hours of fiddling and tuning and
dialing and adjusting all of these
components to get everything aligned and
working together
we are making progress so under the
microscope at the moment if we zoom in
you can see I've just got a random PCB
just for something to look at basically
and if we pop over to the
webcam you can see well maybe you can't
see I don't know if you can see but
basically we've got a checkerboard
pattern coming from the DMD and then
there's texture in all the spots that
aren't black and that is the PCB so if I
move the stage a little you can see it
moves under it this is really cool this
means it's working and I am really
excited right now so I've got the motion
system wired up and basically working
not programmed to do anything
intelligent but I've got the rotation
stage up here on top rotating and the XY
stage XY staging so if we run a quick
test program should see the stage rotate
here
okay and now the stage itself will
Center and then start stepping through a
grid
[Music]
pattern there it goes pretty
cool okay so after all that work I think
it's time to try some test exposures the
procedure is similar to what you've seen
in past videos photo resist is dispensed
onto a glass substrate it's spun at a
few thousand RPM forming a thin film on
the surface it's then baked on a hot
plate to remove any extra solvent I
typically scratch a corner to give me
something to focus on and then put it in
the machine and hit run my python code
then displays a test pattern for
different lengths of time moving around
between each different exposure after
that's done the pattern is developed in
dilute pottassium hydroxide and if all
goes well we should have some
microscopic patterns to look at I
checked them out under the scanning
electron microscope and the results are
encouraging but mixed some are pretty
good there's like nice crisp features
with small details other patterns are
frankly just plain awful blurry lines
uneven development just like all around
bad so it took me a while to understand
what was going on here but I eventually
realized these were mechanical
inaccuracies that were causing the
objective to go in and out of focus
depending on the location and so the
further out of focus the objective is
the more blurry the resulting image so
there's a few options the wafer Chuck
itself could be not actually flat and so
that'll show up when we move in X and Y
or the rotation mechanism could have
some run out so it kind of like wobbles
as it rotates around if I had a
motorized Z stage some of this would be
easy to fix in software because we can
basically refocus at each new location
but I don't have a motorized Z stage
it's just manual which means we'll need
to fix it mechanically as much as
possible so I've got an indicator on the
wafer stage we're going to rotate it
around and see what it looks
like yeah so it looks like it's it's got
about
4,000 of run
out either in the uh spindle itself or
this uh platin on top which is not great
yeah so if we move the stage in
X is maybe a
tenth of deviation which is great but if
we move it in
y there's I don't know maybe three thou
across the whole thing and we know for a
fact that the stage itself is is has
excellent linearity so all of the error
here is in the stackup so something
about my rotation Stage Vacuum Chuck
manual stage all of this on top of the
XY stage is causing the
error and look at it this
way now we
have the error in
X and a little bit in
[Music]
why it's probably mostly from this
mechanism here there's just run out in
how this is spinning uh and there might
be a little bit of error from the
kinematic Mount cuz honestly I didn't do
a great job you can even kind of feel it
here there's some rocking
motion because I think probably this
o-ring
is a bit too large for this setup so
it's not making good contact on the
balls uh that should be an easy fix
though I think I will
[Music]
uh so there's the high spot and if we
take it to the other
sideo that's
toou yeah so there's all their error
probably from sing that down by
[Music]
hand so I've got two stacks of shims
down on this bottom plate I've got five
th of shim on these two corners tilting
the whole thing that way I spent more
time shimming the setup so now
everything is within about half a th and
we can see in the Y I'm about 1110th and
if I lock the stage and move to X we're
about about a tenth 2/10th depending on
where you take it so hopefully this is
enough to keep us in
Focus uh a tenth is 2.54
microns after a truly ridiculous amount
of adjusting and many many more test
runs I've gotten consistent resolution
down to two microns with a a few notable
caveats first adhesion of the photo
resist to the glass wafer is proving
Troublesome the resist I'm using is
super old it expired in like 2018 and so
I'm guessing it's just losing its
adhesive quality over time this means
patterns can have pretty small features
in the resist and they develop pretty
well and look really nice and crisp
except for when it develops all the way
down to the substrate as soon as that
happens it starts to peel off the
surface and and whole areas get washed
away I can fix that with adhesion
promoters or a thin layer of metal but
it really complicates the process by
adding a lot more steps or pretty toxic
materials the second unfortunate caveat
is that I'm still having a difficult
time hitting Focus reliably so despite
all of my work mechanically trying to
get everything square and parallel it's
still struggling to hit Focus over a
large area Okay fam we need to have a
chat about this
machine because things are not going
quite as well as I had hoped it is 9:38
a.m. on a Sunday morning and I'm here
working on this trying to get everything
dialed in I think we've just hit a
bottleneck as to like the ultimate
resolution that I'm going to get with
the current setup you need to
reconfigure the rotation and Z stage so
that it's a little more adjustable
probably motorized the Optics themselves
should probably not be hung off the
projector like this or can of lever it
off to the side it needs more adjustment
mechanisms basically the whole setup
needs to be just kind of reconfigured
which is a lot of work problem that I'm
having the main issue there's a lot of
problems the main issue is that the
depth of field of this High numerical
aperture objective is too shallow and
with my manual Z stage we just can't hit
that across a whole Stitch field even if
it's relatively small so the fix is just
to have a bigger depth of field and you
do that by using a lower magnification
objective now of course with a lower
magnification objective that means you
have a limit to the resolution you can
hit I don't have the numbers off the top
of my head I'm sure I can put them on
screen but basically this guy could
probably hit 800 nanometer features
whereas a 4X objective I think is
limited to like two or five microns
something like that so plan B is
basically to write masks using this
maskless system and then once we have
those masks we can put that into some
kind of reduction system to take the
mask and put it down to our final size
ultimately that means if we could hit
say 10 or 20 Micron features with this
objective which frankly I think should
be really easy we can take that 20
Micron feature use a 10:1 reduction lens
and make a two Micron feature on our
final substrate so this is obviously a
lot more work because now we have to
build a second machine and go through
the whole process of tuning and dialing
in all the parameters for that and
building masks which is probably not
going to be super easy in of itself
because large things are always harder
than small things which is
counterintuitive but that's just like
how this works because process
development sucks but we will have a
more reliable system on the Mascus side
and it has a nice symmetry because like
this is essentially how the
semiconductor industry works you make a
mask and and then you use that mask to
put in some kind of wafer stepper that
reduces it to a small scale and there's
cool things we can look at in the future
like uh how you optimize masks for
defraction limited Imaging and off-axis
illumination and all this other like
really kind of esoteric
stuff so this is mostly just me
convincing myself that this is a good
idea and that I should stop what I'm
doing and go build an entirely separate
machine instead of fixing a machine that
is honestly working pretty well just not
well enough so I don't know if you think
this is crazy or not you should probably
tell me before I start
[Music]
yeah so I decided to build the mask
projection system what can I say it
seemed like a more fun option at the
time this time around I tried to design
the components to be reusable for
example example the two side panels are
symmetric so they can both be used on
either side and the support brackets are
all identical just rotated into new
positions ordering the side panels twice
rather than two different side panels is
like 20 or 30% cheaper and so it really
makes sense to reuse components where
possible to help Drive the cost down
Optics are all down at the bottom on
this machine and held together by 3D
printed assemblies I decided to print
these because the mechanical
requirements of the system are quite a
bit less stringent than the other one
and it's just faster and easier to print
things sometimes the reduction lens that
I'm using is an old Zeiss lens uh it's a
10 to1 reduction dedicated lithography
lens and it was probably made sometime
in the late '70s I picked it up on eBay
a couple years ago and honestly I've
just been wanting to use it in a project
for a while which is maybe one of the
reasons I decided to go this route who
can say I don't know this for sure but
there's a good chance this lens was
probably used in one of those GCA man
4800 wafer steppers that I mentioned at
the very beginning of the video uh it's
impossible to know exactly but this lens
was used in those machines and I think
Zeiss made them specifically for that
machine at the time the mask is held by
a printed component attached to an XYZ
positioner this will let me adjust the
mask by small amounts if I need to for
alignment purposes and the position art
itself has a magnetic base so it clamps
onto a steel bracket which is attached
to the back of the enclosure the light
source slides back and forth along these
two steel rods the red alignment light
goes on the left and the ultrav violet
light goes on the right but let's talk
about that light source for a moment
because it's a surprisingly tricky Topic
in a perfect world we would have 100%
columnated light passing straight
through the mask and it would be
generated from an infinitely small point
source traditional light sources were
typically Mercury or Xenon lamps
filtered to remove all of the non
ultraviolet components the output was
then collected and homogenized and
recollimated through a series of lenses
and mirrors a more modern option is to
use an array or a matrix of ultraviolet
LEDs uh the problem with this is that
LEDs have a pretty like diverging cone
of light that they generate so you need
to cumate that and the best way to do it
is to put a single lens above every
single LED but I decided to take a
totally different technique from this
paper it uses a stack of thin film light
modifiers to generate a quasi columnated
beam of light first in the stack is a
diffuser to help homogenize the light I
took the glass that was in my UV lamp
and I just hit it with some sandpaper to
make a ground glass diffuser and that
does a great job next up are two
orthogonally stacked brightness
enhancing films these are plastic films
with little like pyramid shapes and due
to internal Reflections light mostly
Escapes in the forward Direction the
rest of the light light bounces around
and is recycled until it finds a way out
so it's a way to enhance the light
output in kind of a preferential
Direction some of the light still
escapes at more extreme angles than we'd
like so on top of that are two
orthogonal layers of Privacy Film this
is like the stuff you put on your laptop
to keep people from looking at your
screen on an airplane so they restrict
the amount of light going off axis and
it's basically a clear plastic with thin
vertical strips of black plastic inside
in kind of like a grading pattern and so
light that's going straight escapes just
fine but light that is moving at an
angle will hit those black strips and be
blocked the final result is a beam of
light that is mostly columnated it's
kind of hard to capture on camera but
there's very little light coming from
any of the sides and most of it is
traveling forward now the big downside
to this is that you lose a lot of light
energy going through this stack of
modifiers I don't know the transmission
specs off top of my head but say each
one is 80% 85% transparent uh that's a
lot of light that gets lost when you
have five of them stacked on top of each
other so it remains to be seen if this
will work well or not I'm cautiously
optimistic worst case we can just let it
expose for longer if we need to finally
there is a beam splitter that sits on
top of the lens and a camera to focus
and align the mask so hopefully you can
appreciate from the state of chaos here
and and lack of fully assembled machine
things haven't gone to plan um the long
and short of it is that I had originally
intended to use the Optics that came
with the the little camera uh this is
like a small compact zoom lens and from
initial testing I thought it would be
okay to provide the alignment through
the beam splitter uh it's not it doesn't
work it there's just no way to make it
work given the current Arrangement or
probably ever it was just a bad idea I
tried a variety of different Optics that
I have sitting around you know I got a
bunch of different stuff in my my parts
bin and I found a few Arrangements that
would maybe work with this particular
setup but it wasn't ideal and really I
should just stop wasting time and
redesign all of this and do it
again okay so here's the new revision
obviously it's all in metal now which is
you know just makes everything easier uh
but there are few distinct changes from
before mostly around adjustability so
you can see that the bottom stage where
the wafer goes or the substrate uh has
gained two more stages so now this is an
XY Z Theta stage the lens is directly
above it and then we see up here the uh
alignment optic setup we have the beam
splitter which sits on top of the lens
using still just a 3D printed Mount I
don't love this it doesn't fit very well
uh so I'll probably replace this at some
point but it's okay enough for now U
we'll take the light bounce it into the
alignment Optics that go into the camera
in the back and you can see that that is
just a microscope objective kind of used
in Reverse so it's taking the image
that's coming out of the lens down here
and magnifying it onto or really
demagnifying it onto the sensor of the
camera this setup also has three degrees
of freedom so there is a translation
stage over here to move the objective
kind of in y and that allows us to focus
the image from the substrate onto the
sensor so this is basically a focusing
movement and then there is an X
translation and around the
back there is a z translation with that
one and x and z allows us to change the
position
that we're aligning to so like we've got
the mask up here and as we change this
one and this one it will move this
objective around and let us focus on
different parts of the pattern that
we're aligning to everything can be
moved in basically all relevant degrees
of freedom because I just wanted to work
and I'm tired tired of messing around
and then obviously since it's in metal
everything's just a lot more rigid and
we shouldn't have to worry about stuff
flexing and moving uh just because you
know polymers aren't great for this sort
of setup so yeah uh let's throw it in
the machine and see how it works okay so
predictably enough there's something
wrong that needs uh new component so
this arm that holds the objective
doesn't allow the objective to get close
enough to the sensor so we need to
replace this part with a new one and
luckily I've already made it it's a new
design uh but it gets everything a
little
closer there we go there is another
problem but this one's a much easier fix
and it's that the diameter of this
microscope objective is basically the
same diameter as the C Mount threads
that hold the
microscope uh camera in place and I
didn't think that was a problem cuz I
thought there was enough relief on the
inside here to allow it to get in Focus
but it's not quite enough luckily
microscope objectives usually have a
part of the housing that comes off
sometimes it's the whole thing sometimes
like this one it's just the front
half take that off you can see now it's
much thinner this diameter and that
actually will allow it to go inside of
that bore and get us into our critical
Focus there is if I correctly here's how
it works super
simple we take a mask and we put it in
the mask tray this is a test mask I made
with my fiber laser a couple months ago
so the features are enormous but it'll
be fine for alignment purposes next we
bring the substrate and The Mask into
Focus using the red light if there's an
existing layer we would also align it to
the mask at this step then we switch on
the ultraviolet light and let it Expose
and that's it it's super easy with all
of that tentatively working we need to
go back to the maskless system and make
a mask for mask substrates I'm using
these large plates of glass coated with
about 100 nanm of copper that's thick
enough that you can't see light through
it so it's opaque but the copper
dissolves easily in feric chloride so
just makes processing easier later on my
third attempt I got something
approaching halfway decent and it's
certainly good enough to test with the
start if we look at the mask under the
microscope we can see a few issues that
we'll need to correct in the future the
stage is holding great positioning
accuracy because it has those you know
one nanometer encoders on it but there
are still some misalignments if you look
closely and this is actually due to a
rotation in the optical system it used
to be a whole lot worse but I applied
some rotational calibration and now it's
just slightly off but we can see that
each field is rotated ever so slightly
causing a mismatch between adjacent
Fields it's something I need to fix it's
just not bad enough for me to worry
about at this point you can also see
some of these I don't know like periodic
triangles in the corners this is from
uneven exposure there's a bit of tip
tilt misalignment in my Optics and so
the corner is slightly out of focus
which means the ultraviolet light is a
little more diffuse in that area and it
doesn't expose quite as quickly and
ultimately when it gets developed it
doesn't develop as quickly either and
more generally I just didn't develop
long enough so this whole central region
didn't quite clear and it's kind of like
foggy cuz there's still copper left over
I miscalculated my pixel to Micron scale
and so I think the smallest line width
is probably going to end up about two or
three microns rather than the one micron
so that's something we'll have to fix in
future masks as well but like I said
it's good enough for testing so let's
take it over to the reduction system and
see how it does
[Music]
[Applause]
hey I mean not bad honestly there are
some limitations and problems here but
we knew about those already like the
minimum feature size is about two 2 and
a half microns due to the mask being
scaled a little
incorrectly and the features in the
middle are kind of garbage because the
mask was kind of garbage there but
generally it turned out really well I do
notice there's a bit of falloff around
the edges where probably the light
intensity isn't quite as uniform as it
is in the middle that's something we
might need to fix uh but we can also
maybe just fix that with longer
exposures I don't know that's a TBD but
it definitely looks promising so let's
go make a newer better mask and try this
all again the system is not working
anymore uh I can't get the device to
boot up fully it gets kind of stuck
during the boot phase and it took me a
while to figure out but I think it's
because the UV LEDs are dead they they
died somehow I don't know why uh this
power cable goes to the red LEDs and
this goes to the blue Channel which is
now the UV Channel and if we check them
both with a diode
Test shows 6 volts in One
Direction and Zer volts in the opposite
direction which is what you'd expect
from a diode so that's good and if we
check the blue LED or the UV LED
rather we get 071 volts one way and
071 volts the other way so that's cool
uh basically from what I understand I
don't know electrical engineering but I
think that means the diodes are shorted
open because we're seeing a voltage in
both directions and unfortunately the UV
LED is way up in here there's a heat
sink and then behind that heat sink is
the the LED itself and there is just no
way to get to that without disassembling
the whole thing we have to pull the the
board off then we have to pull the
Optics off then we have to pull this
cover off to get to those LEDs so the
whole stack has to get torn apart and
then we have to replace the LEDs which I
don't have on hand so that's cool I do
however have these LEDs these are 365
nmet wavelength as opposed to 405 which
is currently in the system I got these
CU I thought it'd be fun to try 365 not
realizing that the pad is a different
size so it doesn't actually fit the
circuit board so these just been sitting
around
so I could use these without having to
order new ones but that means I will
have to instead order a new PCB okay
well that kind of sucks not going to lie
uh I did end up making those pcbs and I
just received them but I don't know I
feel like this is a natural stopping
point for the video and frankly the
prospect of tearing apart the whole
Optical system for like the 100th time
fills me with existential dread I
just did I my one micron goal well not
really close but two microns is not one
micron so we can't really say we did but
I do have some real photo masks from the
late '70s and they're interesting to
look at the resolution patterns go down
to two or three microns but the actual
features are enormous I mean they're
like huge chips might need the finest
resolution for certain areas like the
transistor channels but for the most
part most things on a chip are actually
pretty big all the wiring and Vias and
contact pads so I'm going to personally
count this as a qualified win I built
two machines a maskless photo
lithography stepper and a 10:1 reduction
system and I now have the tools to build
features on par with 1980 which you can
do a lot with that there's a lot of
really cool chips out there from that
time period big thanks to sen cut send
for sponsoring this video uh funnily
enough I'd actually ordered all of the
sheet metal Parts with my own money
because it just seemed like the right
approach for this kind of project and it
only occurred to me about halfway
through that sen Cuts might be
interested in sponsoring so I reached
out to them and well here we are so yeah
as far as sponsorships go this is one
that I absolutely do recommend because I
actually use my own money on it having
access to laser cut sheet parts and
especially the sheet metal bending is
really huge for me like I would love to
add the tooling to deal with sheet metal
stuff here in my own shop but frankly I
don't really have the space for it and I
don't think I would use it enough to
justify the expense
but I'm more than happy to have suncut s
do it for me and it was quick and easy
to get the parts I don't think I'd
really want to deal with the logistics
of quarter inch thick sheets of Steel
anyway a full-size sheet is about 600 lb
and nearly $700 plus probably like twice
that in Freight fees so really happy to
just let Sun cut sen do that for me both
times that I ordered the parts were here
within a week and shipping was free
which was a nice perk because metal
parts get kind of heavy and especially
that first batch which had the quar in
thick steel that was not a light package
so free shipping was just kind of a nice
extra surprise it was a lot of fun
learning how to design and work with
bent sheet metal and I'm pretty excited
to use this capability in future
projects so yeah if you are working on a
project that could benefit from sheet
metal I highly recommend checking out
send cut send it was super easy and the
parts were great as a final closing note
keep an eye out for a companion video to
this one I know this one has gotten very
very long but despite that I had to cut
a lot of really interesting technical
details about the motion and the
kinematics and compensation and the
Optics all the kind of really in the
weeds details that are interesting but
just didn't fit here So the plan is to
edit together kind of an engineering cut
of all the extra details and footage
that didn't make this one and just do a
kind of you know low production value
stream of conscious looking at a webcam
sort of thing uh and that'll be out in I
don't know a week or three whenever I
recover from editing this one all right
cool I think that's all I got for you
thanks for sticking it out to the end
and I hope this was interesting I'll see
you next time